>> Woodruff: FOUR U.S. MARINES
SHOT TO DEATH AT A NAVY AND
MARINE RESERVE CENTER IN
CHATTANOOGA.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY:
CAMPAIGN WAR CHESTS UNVEILED--
THE 2016 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
DISCLOSE RECORD CASH
CONTRIBUTIONS MORE THAN A YEAR
BEFORE THE GENERAL ELECTION.
PLUS, AUSTERITY IN ACTION,
GREECE PASSES TOUGH REFORMS, A
BAILOUT MOVES FORWARD.
I.M.F. CHIEF CHRISTINE LAGARDE
ON BRINGING GREEKDEBT UNDER
CONTROL.
>> IT'S IMPORTANT TO ACTUALLY
MAKE SURE THAT THE COUNTRY IS ON
TRACK, THAT THE DEBT IS
SUSTAINABLE, AND THAT THERE IS A
CHANCE OF REIMBURSEMENT.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, AN
ENVIRONMENTAL SHOCK TO THE
ECONOMY, SETTING A PRICE TO
HEDGE AGAINST THE RISKS OF
CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> I WANT THE GOVERNMENT, TO PUT
A PRICE ON CO2 THAT EVERYBODY
PAYS IN ORDER TO SET THE RIGHT
INCENTIVES.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: ONCE AGAIN, MEMBERS OF
THE U.S. MILITARY HAVE BEEN
KILLED IN A BARRAGE OF GUNFIRE,
AT THEIR WORKPLACES, ON HOME
SOIL.
THE TARGETS TODAY WERE IN
CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE.
IT HAPPENED JUST AFTER MID-
MORNING: A CAR STOPPED AND A MAN
STARTED SHOOTING AT A PAIR OF
MILITARY SITES.
>> HE JUST PULLED UP AND I
DIDN'T THINK ANYTHING OF IT.
HE HAD HIS DROP TOP AND HE
LOOKED TO THE SIDE AND THE NEXT
THING YOU KNOW HE LIFTED HIS
ARMS LIKE THIS WITH A BIG BLACK
GUN.
THERE WAS ONE SHOT AND THEN IT
WAS ENDLESS SHOTS.
ONE AFTER ANOTHER.
>> Ifill: THE FIRST TARGET WAS A
MILITARY RECRUITING CENTER.
DOZENS OF SHOTS WERE FIRED FROM
A CAR, BUT NO ONE WAS HURT.
THEN, MINUTES LATER, THE GUNMAN
OPENED FIRE AT A NAVY RESERVE
CENTER ABOUT SEVEN MILES AWAY.
FOUR U.S. MARINES WERE KILLED
THERE, SPARKING A GUNFIGHT WITH
POLICE.
THE SHOOTER WAS KILLED, AND A
POLICE OFFICER AND OTHERS WERE
WOUNDED.
CHATTANOOGA MAYOR ANDY BERKE
CALLED IT A "NIGHTMARE."
>> IT IS INCOMPREHENSIBLE TO SEE
WHAT HAPPENED AND THE WAY THAT
INDIVIDUALS WHO PROUDLY SERVE
OUR COUNTRY WERE TREATED.
TWO DIFFERENT LOCATIONS THIS
INDIVIDUAL WENT TO AND AS A CITY
WE WILL RESPOND TO THIS WITH
EVERY AVAILABLE RESOURCE THAT WE
HAVE.
>> Ifill: A NUMBER OF REPORTS
IDENTIFIED THE GUNMAN AS
MUHAMMAD YOUSSEF ABDULAZEEZ, A
NATIVE OF KUWAIT, AND POLICE
BEGAN SEARCHING HIS HOME NEAR
CHATTANOOGA.
THE U.S. ATTORNEY FOR EASTERN
TENNESSEE SAID OFFICIALS ARE
TREATING THE ATTACKS AS "AN ACT
OF DOMESTIC TERRORISM."
A SHORT TIME AGO, PRESIDENT
OBAMA SAID THE ATTACK APPEARED
TO BE THE WORK OF A LONE GUNMAN
AND PROMISED A THOROUGH
INVESTIGATION.
THIS WAS JUST THE LATEST MASS
SHOOTING AT A U.S. MILITARY
SITE.
IN 2009, AN ARMY OFFICER KILLED
13 PEOPLE AT FORT HOOD, TEXAS.
AND IN 2013 A FORMER NAVY
RESERVIST KILLED 12 AT THE
WASHINGTON, D.C. NAVY YARD.
>> Woodruff: THE MAN ACCUSED IN
THE MASS KILLINGS IN CHARLESTON,
SOUTH CAROLINA-- DYLANN ROOF--
WILL GO ON TRIAL ON JULY 11TH OF
NEXT YEAR.
A JUDGE SET THE DATE AT A
HEARING TODAY, AS THE 21-YEAR-
OLD ROOF SAT QUIETLY IN THE
COURTROOM.
HE'S ACCUSED OF MURDERING NINE
PEOPLE AT A BLACK CHURCH LAST
MONTH.
>> Ifill: THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL
BROUGHT A CAUTIOUS RESPONSE FROM
SAUDI ARABIA TODAY, AND A
WARNING.
THE SAUDI FOREIGN MINISTER MET
IN WASHINGTON WITH SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY.
HE STOPPED SHORT OF ENDORSING
THE IRAN ACCORD.
INSTEAD, HE SAID THIS.
>> WE HOPE THAT THE IRANIANS, IF
THE DEAL IS IMPLEMENTED, THAT
THE IRANIANS WILL USE THIS DEAL
IN ORDER TO IMPROVE THE ECONOMIC
SITUATION IN IRAN AND TO IMPROVE
THE LOT OF ITS PEOPLE AND NOT
USE IT FOR ADVENTURES IN THE
REGION.
AND WE ARE COMMITTED THAT IF
IRAN SHOULD TRY TO CAUSE
MISCHIEF IN THE REGION, WE'RE
COMMITTED TO CONFRONT IT
RESOLUTELY.
>> Ifill: KERRY PROMISED THE
U.S. WILL HELP DEFEND ITS ARAB
ALLIES AGAINST ANY TROUBLE
CAUSED BY IRAN.
>> Woodruff: IN JAPAN, THE LOWER
HOUSE OF PARLIAMENT VOTED TODAY
TO LET JAPANESE TROOPS FIGHT
OVERSEAS IF NEEDED FOR THE FIRST
TIME SINCE WORLD WAR TWO.
PRIME MINISTER SHENZO ABE SAID
IT'S NECESSARY, AS A COUNTER TO
CHINA'S GROWING POWER.
OPPOSITION LAWMAKERS BOYCOTTED
THE SESSION.
THE VOTE FOLLOWED AN OVERNIGHT
PROTEST BY THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
AGAINST THE LEGISLATION.
>> Ifill: U.N. HUMAN RIGHTS
INVESTIGATORS ARE DEMANDING
CHINA END A CRACKDOWN ON
LAWYERS.
THEY SAID TODAY MORE THAN 100
PEOPLE HAVE DISAPPEARED OR BEEN
DETAINED IN THE PAST WEEK.
MOST WERE REPRESENTING POLITICAL
DISSIDENTS, JOURNALISTS AND
ARTISTS.
IT'S PART OF AN INTENSIFYING
GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGN TO TIGHTEN
CONTROL OVER THE COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: THE WHEELS WERE SET
IN MOTION TODAY FOR EUPE TROO
OPEN A NEW FINANCIAL LIFELINE TO
GREECE.
THE GREEK PARLIAMENT VOTED IN
THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT TO ADOPT
NEW AUSTERITY MEASURES.
HOURS LATER, THE EUROPEAN
CENTRAL BANK ANNOUNCED NEW
FUNDING FOR GREEK BANKS, DESPITE
QUESTIONS ABOUT ATHENS' FOLLOW-
THROUGH.
>> THERE ARE, I WOULD SAY,
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
IMPLEMENTATION, WILL AND
CAPACITY.
AND SO IT WILL BE, THAT'S WHAT I
SAID, IT WILL BE REALLY IN THE
GREEK GOVERNMENT CAPACITY TO
RESPOND WITH POLICY DECISIONS,
WITH ACTIONS, THAT WOULD DISPEL
THESE DOUBTS.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, EUROPEAN
FINANCE MINISTERS APPROVED
SHORT-TERM LOANS OF MORE THAN
$7.5 BILLION TO KEEP GREECE
AFLOAT.
AND, THE GREEK GOVERNMENT SAID
BANKS THERE WILL REOPEN MONDAY.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE, AND WISCONSIN
GOVERNOR, SCOTT WALKER WON A KEY
LEGAL VICTORY.
THE WISCONSIN SUPREME COURT
TODAY ENDED AN INVESTIGATION
INTO HIS 2012 RECALL CAMPAIGN.
AT ISSUE WAS WHETHER WALKER'S
EFFORT ILLEGALLY COORDINATED
WITH CONSERVATIVE GROUPS.
THE COURT RULED STATE ELECTION
LAW WAS VAGUE, AND CALLED THE
INVESTIGATION "UNJUST".
>> Woodruff: FORMER PRESIDENT
GEORGE H.W. BUSH WAS IN FAIR
CONDITION TODAY AFTER BREAKING A
BONE IN HIS NECK.
HE FELL YESTERDAY AT HIS SUMMER
HOME IN KENNEBUNKPORT, MAINE.
AND HE SPENT THE NIGHT AT A
HOSPITAL IN PORTLAND, WHERE
DOCTORS SAID TODAY HE'S DOING
WELL.
>> Woodruff: MR. BUSH WILL
REMAIN AT THE HOSPITAL FOR NOW,
AND WILL HAVE TO WEAR A NECK
BRACE FOR SOME TIME.
AT 91, HE IS THE OLDEST LIVING
FORMER PRESIDENT.
>> Ifill: A BILL TO OVERHAUL THE
"NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND" ACT
CLEARED THE SENATE TODAY WITH
BIPARTISAN SUPPORT.
IT WOULD GIVE THE STATES AND
SCHOOL DISTRICTS MORE CONTROL
OVER TEACHER AND STUDENT
ASSESSMENTS, AS WELL AS ACADEMIC
STANDARDS.
THE SENATE BILL STILL HAS TO BE
RECONCILED WITH A HOUSE VERSION
THAT GOES EVEN FARTHER.
>> Woodruff: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IS CALLING FOR
NEW MEASURES TO PROTECT STREAMS
NEAR COAL MINES.
PROPOSED RULES TODAY WOULD
CLARIFY AND UPDATE GUIDELINES
FOR RESTORING STREAMS AND MINED
AREAS AFTER THE MINING ENDS.
OFFICIALS SAY THE GOAL IS TO
MODERNIZE PRACTICES AND MAKE
THEM MORE CONSISTENT ACROSS THE
INDUSTRY.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET HAD A GOOD
TODAY, BOOSTED BY UPBEAT
CORPORATE EARNINGS AND PROGRESS
ON THE GREEK BAILOUT.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 70 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
18,120.
THE NASDAQ FINISHED AT A RECORD
HIGH, RISING 64 POINTS TO CLOSE
ABOVE 5,163.
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED NEARLY 17.
>> Woodruff: AND THIS WAS THE
70TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
"TRINITY" TEST, THE FIRST ATOMIC
BOMB BLAST.
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT DETONATED
THE DEVICE ON JULY 16TH, 1945
NEAR LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO.
AN ENORMOUS MUSHROOM CLOUD ROSE
SOME 38,000 FEET INTO THE SKY,
RAINING ASH AND RADIOACTIVE
DEBRIS.
THE NEXT MONTH, THE U.S.
MILITARY DROPPED TWO ATOMIC
BOMBS ON JAPAN, HELPING TO
END WORLD WAR TWO.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR: FOLLOWING THE MONEY ON
THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL FOR 2016,
I.M.F. CHIEF CHRISTINE LAGARDE
ON DEBT RELIEF FOR GREECE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PLAN TO CHANGE
AMERICA'S PRISONS, HOW
CHILDREN'S EMOTIONAL SKILLS OF
CHILDREN INFLUENCE SUCCESS LATER
IN LIFE, ECONOMIC TACTICS TO
HEDGE AGAINST THE RISKS OF
CLIMATE CHANGE AND A BLOODY TALE
OF POWER, CORRUPTION AND THE
FIGHT AGAINST MEXICAN DRUG
CARTELS.
>> Woodruff: IN THE PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN WORLD, THIS IS A RED
LETTER DAY.
OR MAYBE WE SHOULD SAY GREEN
MONEY DAY.
YESTERDAY WAS THE DEADLINE FOR
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGNS TO
DECLARE HOW MUCH THEY'VE RAISED.
SO FAR WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT MONEY
RAISED FOR THE PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGNS THEMSELVES, HILLARY
CLINTON IS OUT FRONT-- BY A LOT.
SHE IS FOLLOWED BY FELLOW
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE BERNIE
SANDERS AND THEN REPUBLICANS TED
CRUZ, JEB BUSH AND BEN CARSON.
BUT THOSE NUMBERS DON'T TELL THE
FULL STORY.
THANKS TO THE SUPREME COURT'S
CITIZEN'S UNITED DECISION,
OUTSIDE POLITICAL GROUPS ARE ON
THE RISE AND WE ARE IN
UNCHARTERED TERRITORY WHEN IT
COMES TO HOW MUCH CANDIDATES
RAISE AND SPEND.
JOINING ME TO UNTANGLE THE 2016
FUNDRAISING WEB ARE: MATEA GOLD
WHO COVERS CAMPAIGN FINANCE FOR
"THE WASHINGTON POST" AND, IN
SAN FRANCISCO, SASHA ISSENBERG
WHO IS A CONTRIBUTOR TO
"BLOOMBERG POLITICS" AND THE
AUTHOR OF THE "THE VICTORY
MACHINE".
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
SO IF YOU LOOKED ONLY AT THESE
NUMBERS WE WERE JUST SHOWING
WITH THE CANDIDATES THEMSELVES
HAVE RAISED, YOU GET A VERY
DIFFERENT PICTURE THAN WHEN YOU
ADD IN WHAT THESE OUTSIDE
SO-CALLED SUPER PAC COMMITTEES
HAVE RAISED.
SO LET'S TAKE A LOOK AT THOSE.
MATEA GOLD, I WANT TO ASK YOU
ABOUT IT BECAUSE, YOU SEE HERE,
YOU'VE GOT SOME VERY DIFFERENT
NUMBERS, WHEN YOU ADD IN BOTH
WHAT HILLARY CLINTON RAISED, FOR
EXAMPLE, WITH WHAT SHE RAISED
FROM THE OUTSIDE COMMITTEE.
AT THE TOP, THOUGH, IS JEB BUSH.
HE RAISED 11 MILLION AGO A AS A
CANDIDATE, BUT HIS TOTAL WHEN
YOU ADD IN THE SUPER PACS,
$119 MILLION.
MATEA GOLD, WHAT'S HAPPENING
HERE?
>> I THINK WE'RE SEE AGO
FUNDAMENTAL REWIRING OF HOW
POLITICAL MONEY IS RAISED AT A
NATIONAL LEVEL.
IN THE REPUBLICAN FIELD, NEARLY
FOUR OUT OF FIVE DOLLARS RAISED
TO SUPPORT THE G.O.P. CONTENDERS
WAS RAISED THROUGH OUTSIDE
GROUPS RATHER THAN THE CAMPAIGNS
THEMSELVES, AND THAT IS A
DRAMATIC SHIFT IN SOMETHING
THAT'S UNPRECEDENTED.
ETH NOT THE SAME CASE ON THE
DEMOCRATIC SIDE.
FOR NOW, HILLARY CLINTON HAS
MORE IN CAMPAIGN KITTY THAN THE
ALLIED SUPER PAC.
BUT WE HAVE A LONG WAYS TO GO
AND THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT
THESE OUTSIDE GROUPS ARE PLAYING
A MORE CENTRAL AND PROMINENT
ROLL THAN EVER BEFORE.
>> Woodruff: MATEA GOLD, WHO'S
GIVING THESE BIG MONEY AND
DONATIONS TO THESE OUTSIDE
COMMITTEES AND WHY IS MOST OF IT
GOING TO REPUBLICANS?
>> WELL, REPUBLICANS HAVE REALLY
TAKEN THE LEAD IN PURSUING THIS
SOURCE OF DOLLARS.
WE DON'T KNOW ALL THE DONORS OF
THESE GROUPS YET BECAUSE THESE
ORGANIZATIONS, THOSE THAT DO
DISCLOSE DON'T HAVE TO REPORT
THEY'RE DONORS UNTIL THE END OF
THE MONTH, BUT WE ALREADY HAVE
SOME GLIMPSES OF THE KIND OF
RESOURCES THEY'RE BRINGING TO
BEAR.
RICK PERRY HAS A SUPPORT WHO ARE
WROTE A $6 MILLION CHECK TO A
SUPER PAC BACKING HIM.
SO WE'RE SURE TO SEE A LOT OF 7
AND 8-FIGURE DONATIONS COMING
INTO THESE GROUPS AND SPEAKS TO
THE ENGS HANDING DONOR UNIVERSE
WE'RE SEEING IN POLITICS.
NOT JUST YOUR CAMPAIGN
FUNDRAISERS THAT ARE INVOLVED
BUT THE MILLIONAIRES AND BILL
NASR THAT HAVE THE ABILITY TO
WRITE THESE HUGE SOMS.
>> Woodruff: SASHA, WHAT IS
THE MONEY SPENT FOR?
>> A LOT IS TRADITIONAL VARIETY
OF CAMPAIGN EXPENSES,
ADVERTISING ON TELEVISION,
RADIO, FIELD OPERATIONS, OPENING
OFFICES, HIRING STAFF IN STATES,
PAYING FOR VOTER CONTACT, DIRECT
MAIL PHONES.
THE FLIP SIDE MATEA TELLS ABOUT
THE REWIRING OR RAISING OF MONEY
BEING DIVIDE BID THE TWO
DIFFERENT ENTITIES, IN EACH CASE
SUPPORTING THE SAME COVENANT BUT
FORBIDDEN FROM LEGALLY
COORDINATING THEIR EFFORTS, IS
THEY'RE NOW SPENDING IN PARALLEL
IN WAYS THAT CAN'T COORDINATE
THEIR EFFORTS.
SO WE SEE THE DIFFERENT
CANDIDATES HAVE STRUCTURED THE
DIVISION OF LABOR BETWEEN THEIR
CANDIDATE CAMPAIGN AND THEIR
SUPERPACK OR AFFILIATED
SUPER PAC TO TAKE ON DIFFERENT
RESPONSIBILITIES.
WE CAN START TO SEE THE MAKINGS
OF WHAT THEY WANT TO KEEP WITHIN
THEIR OWN CAMPAIGN OPERATION AND
WHAT THEY TRUST THEIR SUPERPACK
TO DO.
WHETHER THEY WANT TO RUN THE
BULK OF THE TELEVISION ADS OR
WHETHER THEY'D LIKE TO SEE THE
OUTSIDE GROUP DO IT.
>> Woodruff: HOW IS THIS WAY
DIFFERENT FREE PREVIOUS
CAMPAIGNS BOTH IN THE WAY
THEY'RE RAISING AND SPENDING
MONEY?
>> USED TO BE ALL THE MONEY
RAISED IN YOUR NAME OR FOR THE
CAUSE OF ELECTING YOU PRESIDENT,
YOU CONTROLLED.
IF WE GO BACK JUST EIGHT YEARS,
BASICALLY, ALL OF THE MONEY
SPENT TO ELECT BARACK OBAMA WAS
UNDER THE BUDGETARY CONTROL OF
HIS CAMPAIGN MANAGER DAVID
PLOUFFE.
SO YOU COULD DEVELOP A STRATEGY
AND SET OF TACTICS THAT WORKED
HOLISTICALLY TO ADVANCE YOUR
INTERESTS.
NOW YOU NEED TO B THESE SORT OFY
RIGGED OPERATIONS.
THERE ARE OTHER GROUPS THAT
EXIST IN OTHER PARTS OF THE TAX
CODE THAT ARE ALSO SPENDING
MONEY WITH THE GOAL OF HELPING
HIM GET ELECTED PRESIDENT BUT
LIMITATIONS ON HOW THEY CAN WORK
IN TANDEM.
WHAT'S HAPPENING NOW IS AS AN
ORGANIZATIONAL CHALLENGE,
CAMPAIGNERS ARE THINKING
DIFFERENTLY ABOUT HOW THEY
DIVIDE WHAT THEY DO AND IT
BECOMES A LOT MORE PLANNING
CHALLENGE TO FIGURE OUT WHO'S
GOING TO SPEND THE MONEY, HOW
AND WHEN, THAN IT WOULD HAVE
BEEN PREVIOUSLY.
>> Woodruff: MATEA GOLD, THERE
IS ANOTHER STORY IN THESE
NUMBERS AND THAT IS HOW WELL
SOME OF THE CANDIDATES ARE DOING
WITH SMALL DONATIONS.
I THINK WE'VE GOT ANOTHER
GRAPHIC TO SHOW.
HILLARY CLINTON, FOR EXAMPLE,
AND THE $47 MILLION SHE RAISED,
17% CAME FROM SMALL DONORS.
A REAL SHOCK, BERNIE SANDERS
RAISED $15 MILLION, 76% FROM
SMALL DONORS.
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO GAVE $200
OR LESS.
>> RIGHT, AND I THINK IT
ACTUALLY PROBABLY IS NOT
SURPRISING, IF YOU LOOK AT THE
KIND OF RESPONSE HE'S GETTING ON
THE GROUND IN THESE RALLIES THAT
ARE REALLY TEEMING WITH PEOPLE,
OFTEN MORE THAN HIS CAMPAIGN HAS
THE CAPACITY TO HANDLE.
THAT KIND OF ORGANIC REACTION TO
A CANDIDATE DRIVES ONLINE
DONATIONS AND WE'RE SEEING HIM
EFFECTIVELY HARNESS THAT
ENTHUSIASM.
ON THE OTHER END OF THE
SPECTRUM, JEB BUSH, 3% OF THE
MONEY HE RAISED CAME FROM SMALL
DONORS, THAT SPEAKS TO THE
GRASSROOTS AND HOW HE CAN
CONVINCE PEOPLE HE'S THE
CANDIDATE TO TAKE CHARGE AND WIN
THE NOMINATION.
>> Woodruff: SO MUCH MORE HERE
THAN JUST THE NUMBERS.
MATEA GOLD, SASHA ISSENBERG, WE
THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE.
THANKS.
>> Ifill: EUROPE AND GREECE
FINALLY APPEAR TO BE CLOSE TO A
BAILOUT DEAL TO PROVIDE ATHENS A
FINANCIAL LIFELINE.
BUT IT APPEARS THAT BATTLE IS
NOT YET OVER.
A NEW FRONT HAS OPENED WHETHER
TO PROVIDE PERMANENT RELIEF FOR
GREECE'S $330 BILLION DEBT,
WHETHER BY EXTENDING REPAYMENT,
ENCOURAGING CREDITORS TO TAKE A
LOSS-- CALLED A HAIRCUT-- OR
CANCELING SOME OF WHAT'S OWED
OUTRIGHT.
THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND-
- ONE OF GREECE'S MANY
CREDITORS-- SAYS THAT WITHOUT
SOME FORM OF DEBT RESTRUCTURING,
THE GREEK ECONOMY WILL REMAIN IN
FREE FALL.
EARLIER TODAY, I TALKED ABOUT
THAT WITH THE I.M.F.'S MANAGING
DIRECTOR, CHRISTINE LAGARDE.
CHRISTINE LAGARDE, THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: AFTER EVERYTHING
WE'VE SEEN DEVELOP IN GREECE IN
THE LAST SEVERAL WEEKS AND
ESPECIALLY IN THE LAST WEEK, YOU
HAVE SAID THAT EVEN MORE MIGHT
BE NECESSARY, THAT DEBT RELIEF
IS IMPORTANT.
HOW WILL THAT HAPPEN?
>> IT CAN TAKE DIFFERENT FORMS.
IT COULD BE SIGNIFICANT
RESCHEDULING WITH EXTENSION OF
MATURITIES OVER TIME, WITH AN
EXTENDED GRACE PERIOD, WITH
COMPRESSED INTEREST.
IT CAN BE A HAIRCUT.
IT CAN BE BUDGET TRANSFERS.
I THINK I'M VERY REALISTIC AND
WE TRY TO BE.
WWHERE WE ARE CLEAR IS THE EURO
MEMBERS ARE NOT KEEN TO DO
HAIRCUTS AND BUDGET TRANSFERS
ARE NOT IN THE CARDS EITHER.
>> Ifill: SO WRITING OFF PART
OF THE DEBT IS NOT AN ISSUE.
>> WHAT WE SAID IS SIGNIFICANT
RESTRUCTURING WHICH CAN BE
REPROFILING FOR GREECE.
>> Ifill: IS THAT SOMETHING
EUROPEAN PARTNERS ARE FANS OF?
>> I DON'T THINK ANY CREDITOR IS
A FAN OF REDEFINING BECAUSE IT
MEANS YOU CARRY THE DEBT IN YOUR
BOOKS FOR MUCH LONGER AND THE
CLAIM IN YOUR BOOKS FOR MUCH
LONGER.
SO NO CREDITOR IS KEEN TO DO
THAT.
BUT IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT TO
ACTUALLY MAKE SURE THAT THE
COUNTRY IS ON TRACK, THAT THE
DEBT IS SUSTAINABLE AND THAT
THERE IS A CHANCE OF
REIMBURSEMENT.
>> Ifill: WAS IT ALSO BECAUSE
TO HAVE THE POLITICAL
RAMIFICATIONS THAT WE DIDN'T
HEAR ABOUT THIS EARLIER AND YOU
DIDN'T PUSH FOR THIS TO BE PART
OF THE NEGOTIATIONS?
>> IT'S BEEN ON THE TABLE FOR
THE NEGOTIATIONS ALL ALONG AND
THE I.M.F. HAS BEEN CLEAR ON
WHAT IS THE DEBT AND WHAT'S
ADDRESSED MORE CRITICAL.
IT'S BEEN MORE PUBLIC BASED ON
TRANSPARENCY BECAUSE I THINK
IT'S BEST TO HAVE IT ALL OUT,
BUT IT'S BEEN VERY CLEAR TO ALL
THE AREA FINANCE MIEISTERS, TO
THE PARTNERS, EVERYBODY.
>> THE QUESTION IS A MATTER OF
MAGNITUDE.
HOW MUCH TROUBLE IS GREECE IN
AND MORE SERIOUS THAN EVEN IT
SEEMED TO BE A WEEK AGO.
>> YOU'RE RIGHT.
IT'S A MATTER OF AMOUNT.
HOW MUCH OF IT HAS TO BE
REPROFILED SO THAT GREECE LOOKS
AT THE SUSTAINABLE PARTS, AND WE
BELIEVE THAT IT'S A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT.
>> PRIME MINISTER ALEXIS TSIPRAS
HAS NOT BEEN, HOW SHALL WE SAY,
ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT THE DEAL EVEN
THOUGH HE AGREED TO IT AND
CONTINUED TO PUSH FOR IT, BUT
VERY RELUCTANTLY.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE HIM NUMBER
FOR IT HARDER -- PUSH FOR IT
HARDER?
>> IT'S QUITE AN IMPRESSIVE VOTE
TO SUPPORT THE PROPOSAL AND TAKE
THE STEPS WHICH IS MORE
ENCOURAGING IN TERMS OF
DEVELOPMENT, AND THEN THERE IS
THE OWNERSHIP OF IT ALL.
I THINK OWNERSHIP, AND I HOPE
OWNERSHIP IS GOING TO COME
GRADUALLY AS THOSE MEASURES WILL
ACTUALLY UNFOLD IN A
SATISFACTORY MANNER, WILL
UNLEASE ADDITIONAL FINANCING,
WILL HELP THE COUNTRY BE MORE
STABLE, PEOPLE HAVING BETTER
ACCESS TO THEIR OWN FINANCES.
>> Ifill: I WONDER IF IT
REQUIRES PUBLIC OPINION TO SHIFT
AWAY FROM WHERE IT IS RIGHT NOW,
AND WHAT WE'VE SEEN IN THE PAST
WHICH CAUSED SUCH HEARTBURN THIS
TIME IS GREECE HAS NOT LIVED UP
TO ITS COMMITMENT, AT LEAST A
LOT OF EUROPEAN LEADERS FEEL
THAT.
WHAT'S DIFFERENT THIS TIME?
>> TWO THINGS.
ONE IS THERE IS A VERY STRONG
NEED OF THE GREEK PEOPLE TO BE
PART WITHIN THE EUROZONE AND
KEEP THE CURRENCY, AND THAT'S A
POSITIVE.
THE SECOND THING IS TO ACTUALLY
BE A MEMBER OF THE CLUB, YOU
HAVE TO PLAY BY THE RULES, AND
IF WE SEE THE MOMENTUM OBSERVED
IN THE LAST FEW DAYS SINCE THE
WEEKEND, HOWEVER DIFFICULT IT
HAS BEEN, HO HOWEVER LABORIOUS,F
WE SEE THAT MOMENTUM CONTINUE
AND PICK UP WITH DIFFICULT
NEGOTIATIONS AND IMPLEMENTATION
TO FOLLOW, NOT ONLY DOES IT MEAN
THEY'RE NOT ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT
BEING IN THE EUROZONE BUT ARE
PREPARED TO TAKE THE RIGHT
MEASURES TO FREE UP THE ECONOMY,
TO PRIVATIZE WHAT NEEDS TO BE
PRIVATIZED, TO RESPECT THE
BUDGET THAT NEEDS TO BE
RESPECTED AND UNLEASH THE
FOLKSLE OF THE GREEK ECONOMY.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
BEING A MEMBER OF THE CLUB.
THE GERMAN FOREIGN FINANCE
MINISTER MADE THE MENTION OF
GREEK LEAVING THE EURO WHICH I
THOUGHT HAD BEEN SETTLED.
IS THIS A POSSIBILITY?
>> IT WAS A POINT IN THE INITIAL
DRAFT ON SATURDAY NIGHT OR
SUNDAY MORNING WHICH HAS BEEN
MOVED OUT OF THE FINAL EURO
COMMUNIQUE, SIGNED OFF BY THE
LEADERS.
>> Ifill: A TEMPORARY EXIT AND
THEN COMING BACK?
>> YES, THAT WAS TAKEN OUT OF
THE DRAFT.
SO THE DOCUMENT THAT IS THE LURE
OF THE PARTIES NOW IS THE
COMMUNIQUE WHICH DOES NOT
INCLUDE THE TEMPORARY EXIT.
OF COURSE, EVERYTHING ELSE NEEDS
TO BE DONE, SO BALANCED PROGRAM,
COMMITMENTS ON THE PARTS OF THE
GREEK TO REFORM THE ECONOMY, TO
MOVE TOWARDS A SAFE, HEALTHY
FISCAL POLICIES, AND, ON THE
OTHER HAND, SUPPORT BY THE EURO
AREA PARTNERS IN TERMS OF BOTH
FINANCING BECAUSE THEY NEED
ADDITIONAL FINANCING SOON, AND
DEBT RESTRUCTURING IN ORDER TO
LIGHTEN THE BURDEN OF DEBT GOING
FORWARD.
>> AND I GUESS THE QUESTION IS,
IS THERE WILLINGNESS?
>> I KNOW HOW HARD IT IS GOING
TO BE.
NO QUESTION.
BUT I'M ENCOURAGED BY WHAT HAS
HAPPENED OVER THE LAST FOUR
DAYS.
STRONG, YOU KNOW, MOMENTUM,
LABORIOUSLY BUILT OVER THE
WEEKEND, AND THEN I SAID --
YESTERDAY, I SAID VERY TIGHT
TIMETABLE, COLORFUL CHALLENGE.
I THINK THE VERY TIGHT TIMETABLE
THEY'RE RUNNING AGAINST.
THEY PASSED A LEGISLATION
YESTERDAY, THE E.C.B.OOK T
NOTICE OF IT AND MOVED -- THE
EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK MOVED UP
THE EMERGENCY LIQUIDITY
ASSISTANCE LINE.
SOONER OR LATER THE BANKS WILL
REOPEN AS, YOU KNOW, A SIGN THAT
CONFIDENCE IS RESTORED, AND THE
EUROPEANS HAVE FOUND FINANCING
TO PAY THE OUTSTANDING.
>> Ifill: CHRISTINE LAGARDE,
HEAD OF THE I.M.F., THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Ifill: WE HAVE A VERDICT IN
A MAJOR COURT CASE.
A JURY IN COLORADO CONVICTED
JAMES HOLMES IN A MASS SHOOTING
AT A MOVIE THEATER IN JULY 2012.
HE OPENED FIRE IN A MIDNIGHT
SHOWING IN AURORA, COLORADO,
KILLING 7 PEOPLE AND INJURING
70.
THE JURY REJECTED HIS DEFENSE
THAT HE WAS NOT GUILTY BY REASON
OF INSANITY AND FOUND HIM GUILTY
FOR ALL THE MURDER COUNTS WHICH
MAKES HIM ELIGIBLE FOR THE DEATH
PENALTY.
JUDY.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK, THE
ISSUE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE
REFORM-- WHO GOES TO PRISON IN
AMERICA-- HIT A KIND OF CRITICAL
MASS, WITH ACTION FROM PRESIDENT
OBAMA, IN CONGRESS AND ON
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGNS.
AS PART OF OUR "BROKEN JUSTICE"
SERIES, OUR LISA DESJARDINS LAYS
OUT THE REFORM MOVEMENT THAT
BOTH REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS
ARE PUSHING, AND WHICH SOME IN
LAW ENFORCEMENT WANT TO PUSH
BACK.
>> Reporter: IT WAS A SYMBOL
INTENDED TO SPARK SWEEPING
CHANGE: THE FIRST VISIT EVER BY
A SITTING U.S. PRESIDENT TO A
FEDERAL PRISON.
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S WALK TODAY
THROUGH THE EL RENO FACILITY
OUTSIDE OKLAHOMA CITY CAPPED OFF
HIS WEEK-LONG PUSH ON WHAT HE
CALLS A BROKEN CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM.
>> THESE ARE YOUNG PEOPLE WHO
MADE MISTAKES THAT AREN'T THAT
DIFFERENT THAN MISTAKES I MADE.
AND THE MISTAKES THAT A LOT OF
YOU GUYS HAVE MADE.
>> Reporter: MONDAY, THE
PRESIDENT COMMUTES SENTENCES FOR
46 DRUG-OFFENDERS.
TUESDAY, AT THE N.A.A.C.P.
NATIONAL CONVENTION IN
PHILADELPHIA.
THE PRESIDENT SPEAKS TO THE
RACIAL DISPARITY WITHIN THE
PRISON POPULATION.
>> AFRICAN AMERICANS AND LATINOS
MAKE UP 30% OF OUR POPULATION.
THEY MAKE UP 60% OF OUR INMATES.
ABOUT ONE IN EVERY 35 AFRICAN
AMERICAN MEN, ONE IN EVERY 88
LATINO MEN IS SERVING TIME RIGHT
NOW.
AMONG WHITE MEN, THAT NUMBER IS
ONE IN 214.
>> Reporter: PRESIDENT OBAMA IS
ADDING HIS VOICE TO A
BI-PARTISAN CALL FOR REFORM OF
THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM.
TODAY REPUBLICAN PRIDENESTIAL
HOPEFUL AND NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR
CHRIS CHRISTIE RELEASED A PLAN,
TO EDUCATE PRISONERS.
>> IF WE'RE GOING TO INCARCERATE
PEOPLE, THEN WE SHOULD MAKE THEM
DO SOMETHING PRODUCTIVE AND NOT
JUST SIT AROUND WATCHING T.V.
ALL DAY.
ONE SOLUTION IS TO REQUIRE
INMATES TO TRY AND GET THEIR
G.E.D. BEFORE RELEASE, SO THEY
HAVE SOME MINIMUM
QUALIFICATIONS.
>> Reporter: REFORMING CRIMINAL
JUSTICE IS ON THE RADAR OF
NEARLY ALL THOSE WHO WOULD BE
PRESIDENT.
IN THE PAST FEW MONTHS, 18 OF
THE CURRENT 20 PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES HAVE ARGUED FOR SOME
KIND OF CHANGE.
UP ON CAPITAL HILL, IDEAS HAVE
MADE IT INTO A GROUP OF BILLS
THAT ARE MOVING TOWARD FLOOR
VOTE.
A HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE THIS
WEEK REVIEWED A NUMBER OF REFORM
PROPOSALS INCLUDING A BILL
SPONSORED BY SENATE REPUBLICAN
JOHN CORNYN.
>> IT COSTS $30,000 A YEAR TO
INCARCERATE AN INDIVIDUAL IN
PRISON AND LESS THAN $8,000 TO
KEEP THEM ON PRE-RELEASE CUSTODY
LIKE HOME CONFINEMENT AND THE
LIKE.
>> Reporter: WATCHING THE
HEARING, MARK HOLDEN, THE LAWYER
FOR THE REPUBLICAN MEGA DONORS
KOCH BROTHERS IS ALSO PART OF
THE MOVEMENT.
KOCH INDUSTRIES, ALONG WITH
TARGET, HOME DEPOT AND WAL-MART,
HAVE ALL "BANNED THE BOX"
REMOVING QUESTIONS ABOUT PAST
CONVICTIONS ON COMPANY JOB
APPLICATIONS.
IT IS THE LATEST MOVE IN DECADES
OF DEBATE OVER HOW TO STOP
CRIME.
>> TODAY, THERE'S A NEW
EPIDEMIC: SMOKEABLE COCAINE.
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS CRACK.
>> Reporter: THE EMERGENCE OF
CRACK COCAINE IN THE 1980S AND
THE "WAR ON DRUGS" LED TO
WIDESPREAD "LOCK 'EM UP"
POLICIES FOR DRUG OFFENDERS.
DEMOCRATS WERE ALSO TOUGH ON
CRIME.
PRESIDENT CLINTON'S 1994 CRIME
BILL LENGTHENED SENTENCES FOR
NON-VIOLENT CRIMINALS, WHILE
POURING NEARLY $10 BIION LLINTO
PRISONS.
THE RESULT: THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
BEHIND BARS SKYROCKETED FROM
500,000 IN 1980 TO MORE THAN 2.2
MILLION TODAY.
THE RISE IN THE NUMBERS
INCARCERATED AND THE FALL IN THE
NUMBER OF CRIMES IS AN INDICATOR
OF A WORKING SYSTEM TO FEDERAL
PROSECUTOR STEVE WASSERMAN HE
FEARS THE PUSH FOR REFORM IS
SHORT-SIGHTED AND DANGEROUS.
>> OUR CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM
HAS RESULTED IN THE LAST 25
YEARS IN THE REDUCTION OF
VIOLENT CRIME BY ABOUT 50% AND
PROPERTY CRIME ALSO BY ABOUT
50%.
SO CRIME IS AT ITS LOWEST LEVELS
IN A GENERATION.
>> Reporter: AND YOU'RE SAYING
IT'S BECAUSE OF CRIMINAL
JUSTICE, BECAUSE WE INCARCERATE
PEOPLE, WE PUT THEM IN JAIL.
>> INCARCERATION DOES REDUCE
CRIME.
>> Reporter: IT IS A FURIOUS
DEBATE THAT IS NOW EXPANDING BY
LEADERS IN BOTH PARTIES HOW TO
CONTINUE TO REDUCE CRIME WHILE
ALSO RETHINKING WHO IS PUT
BEHIND BARS?
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I AM LISA
DESJARDINS.
>> Ifill: THIS WEEK, REPUBLICAN
SENATE JUDICIARY CHAIRMAN CHUCK
GRASSLEY SEEMED TO GIVE THE
REFORM MOVEMENT A BOOST,
ANNOUNCING HE'S TRYING TO REACH
A COMPROMISE TO LOWER MINIMUM
SENTENCES AND REFORM PRISONS.
>> Woodruff: A NEW STUDY SAYS
KEEPING MORE CHILDREN ON TRACK
TO HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION, A
FULL-TIME JOB AND OUT OF THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM COULD
START IN KINDERGARTEN.
IN A REPORT RELEASED TODAY,
RESEARCHERS TRACKED MORE THAN
700 CHILDREN FROM KINDERGARTEN
TO AGE 25.
THEY FOUND STUDENTS' SOCIAL
SKILLS, LIKE COOPERATION,
LISTENING TO OTHERS AND HELPING
CLASSMATES, HELD STRONG CLUES
FOR HOW THOSE CHILDREN WOULD
FARE TWO DECADES LATER.
IN SOME CASES, SOCIAL SKILLS MAY
EVEN BE BETTER PREDICTORS OF
FUTURE SUCCESS THAN ACADEMIC
ONES.
DAMON JONES, A SENIOR RESEARCH
ASSOCIATE AT PENN STATE
UNIVERSITY JOINS ME TO TALK
ABOUT THE FINDINGS.
PROFESSOR JONES, WELCOME.
FIRST, REMIND US WHEN AND WHERE
DID THIS STUDY TAKE PLACE AND
WHAT WAS THE ORIGINAL PURPOSE OF
IT?
>> WELL, JUDY, OUR STUDY ALWAYS
AIMED AT EXPLORING THE
INFLUENTIAL ROLE OF SOCIAL
EMOTIONAL SKILLS IN CHILDREN IN
TERMS OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT IN
GENERAL.
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE A LOT OF
STUDIES THAT LOOKED AT CROSS
RESEARCH DISCIPLINES THAT LOOK
AT SOCIAL MOTIONAL SKILLS,
SOMETIMES CALLED SOFT SKILLS,
SOME NON-COGNITIVE SKILLS, AND
WHAT THESE REPRESENT ARE KIND OF
KEY CHARACTERISTICS IN CHILDREN
REPRESENTING THINGS LIKE
MANAGING THEIR STATE, HAVING
GOOD RELATIONSHIPS, BEING
RESPONSIBLE SOCIALLY,
INTERACTING WELL WITH ADULTS AND
THEN GETTING THINGS DONE.
IT'S REALLY KEY SKILLS?
EARLY DEVELOPMENT THAT YOU CAN
SEE WOULD BE VERY IMPORTANT IN
BEING SUCCESSFUL IN SCHOOL AND
IN RELATIONSHIPS.
>> Woodruff: THIS WAS 20 YEARS
AGO THE STUDY WAS BEGIN.
AND IT WAS A NATIONAL STUDY?
>> YES, IT WAS A NATIONAL STUDY,
FOUR DIFFERENT SITES.
DURE RAM, NORTH CAROLINA,
NASHVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA AND
WASHINGTON.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WAS THE
STRIKING OUTCOME HERE?
>> WELL, THERE WERE A COUPLE OF
REASONS WE WANTED TO LOOK AT
THIS.
FIRST OF ALL, WE WERE REALLY
INTERESTED TO SEE THESE REALLY
LONG-TERM PREDICTIONS.
I THINK A LOT OF TIMES WHEN
PEOPLE LOOK AT SOCIAL-MOTIONAL
SKILLS, THEY MAY BE FOCUSED ON
MORE CONCURRENT OUTCOMES, LIKE
HOW WELL THE CHILD IS DOING IN
SCHOOL, OR THEIR RELATIONSHIPS.
IN THIS CASE, WE REALLY WANTED
TO LOOK AT MARKERS OF WELL
BEING, AND WE HAD GREAT DATA
WHERE WE WERE ABLE TO FOLLOW
THESE CHILDREN FOR OVER 20
YEARS, AND WE WERE ABLE TO SEE
THESE MARKERS OF WELL BEING
ACROSS DOMAINS OF EDUCATION,
EMPLOYMENT, CRIMINAL ACTIVITY,
MENTAL HEALTH, SUBSTANCE ABUSE
AND USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
SO KIND OF A SECONDARY GOAL OF
THE STUDY WAS IT'S BEEN SHOWN IN
A LOT OF RESEARCH THAT
SOCIO-EMOTIONAL SKILLS ARE
MALLEABLE, THEY'RE SOMETHING
THAT CAN BE IMPROVED THROUGHOUT
CHILD DEVELOPMENT AND ARE VERY
EFFECTIVE PROGRAMS THAT CAN DO
THAT.
SO WE SET OUT TO SEE IF WE COULD
ASSESS -- IF WE COULD ACTUALLY
GAUGE THESE LAMMINGS AT A VERY
YOUNG -- THESE RELATIONSHIPS AT
A VERY YOUNG AGE WHICH IS WHY WE
LOOKED AT KINDERGARTEN AGE.
>> Woodruff: YOU COMPARED WHAT
YOU SAW WHEN THE CHILDREN WERE
VERY YOUNG WITH HOW THEY WERE
DOING AS ADULTS AND YOU SAW
DIRECT CONNECTION.
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: JUST GIVE US ONE
BRIEF EXAMPLE OF THAT.
>> SURE.
WE WERE SURPRISED TO FIND -- I
SHOULD POINT OUT THESE SKILLS
WERE UNIQUELY PREDICTED IN THE
LONG-TERM OUTCOMES.
THE OUTCOMES INCLUDED OUTCOMES
WE MEASURED IN ADOLESCENCE,
OUTCOMES MEASURED IN MID
ADULTHOOD BASED ON COURT RECORD
FOR SOME CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES.
THEY WERE UNIQUE PREDICTION IN
THE SENSE OF OTHER KEY ASPECTS
OF THE CHILD THAT WERE
CONTROLLED, EARLY ACADEMIC
ABILITY, CHARACTERISTICS OF HOME
ENVIRONMENT SUCH AS
SOCIOECONOMIC STATUS, BEHAVIOR
AS RATE BID MOTHERS AND
TEACHERS.
THAT ALLOWED US TO SEE THE KIND
OF UNIQUE PREDICTION FROM THE
EARLY SOCIAL EMOTIONAL SKILLS
AND WHAT WE FIND WAS --
>> Woodruff: JUST QUICKLY.
YEAH, WE FOUND SIGNIFICANT
ASSOCIATIONS IN ALL THOSE
DOMAINS, CRIME, EDUCATION,
EMPLOYMENT, SUBSTANCE ABUSE,
MENTAL HEALTH.
ON THE SOCIAL COMPETENCE SCALE,
CHILDREN WERE TWICE AS LIKELY TO
RECEIVE A COLLEGE DEGREE BY AGE
25.
THERE WERE CONSISTENT RESULTS
FOR THE CRIME OUTCOMES --
>> Woodruff: I'M SORRY TO
INTERRUPT YOU, PROFESSOR.
TO ASK YOU, WHAT INTERVENTION DO
YOU THINK COMING OUT OF THE
STUDY THAT SHOULD BE MADE IN
WORKING WITH YOUNG CHILDREN THAT
MIGHT MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THEIR
LIVES LATER?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF HOPE HERE BECAUSE SO MUCH
RESEARCH IS SHOWING THE VALUE OF
THESE SKILLS.
WHAT WE DID WAS NOT DETERMINE
CAUSAL, ALTHOUGH WE CONTROLLED
FOR A LOT OF VARIABLES IN OUR
STATISTICAL MODELS, BUT THERE'S
A LOT OF RESEARCH THAT SHOWS
THERE ARE REALLY EFFECTIVE,
EVIDENCE-BASED PROGRAMS THAT CAN
HELP IMPROVE CHILDREN'S SOCIAL
EMOTIONAL SKILLS.
AND BY LOOKING AND BEING ABLE TO
GAUGE THE SKILLS AT THIS AGE TO
SEE
MUCH.
>> Ifill: THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT 2014 WAS
THE HOTTEST YEAR FOR THE PLANET
IN THE 135 YEARS THAT RECORDS
HAVE BEEN KEPT.
GREENHOUSE GAS CONCENTRATION,
LAND, SURFACE AND SEA
TEMPERATURES ALL CLOCKED IN AT
HISTORIC LEVELS.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN EXPLORES A COUPLE OF
IDEAS WITH THE AUTHORS OF A
RECENT BOOK ON THE SUBJECT.
IT'S PART OF OUR WEEKLY SEGMENT,
"MAKING SENSE", WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
>> SO,OOK L, YOU CAN START TO
SEE EROSION ALONG HERE.
>> Reporter: ECONOMIST MARTY
WEITZMAN THINKS HIS PROPERTY ON
A MARSH IN GLOUCESTER,
MASSACHUSETTS IS WASHING AWAY
DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> THE WATER HAS RISEN A COUPLE
OF INCHES IN THE TIME, IN THE 40
YEARS I'VE BEEN LIVING HERE AND
WHAT'S HAPPENED IS IT'S CAUSED
EROSION AT THE EDGE OF THE LAWN.
WELL, BUT A COUPLE OF INCHES
DOESN'T SEEM LIKE MUCH.
>> MAYBE THAT WOULDN'T BE BUT
IT'S REALLY A COUPLE OF FEET
THAT WE'RE HEADED FOR.
>> Reporter: A COUPLE OF FEET,
OR CONCEIVABLY, SEVERAL DOZEN,
SAYS GERNOT WAGNER, A FORMER
STUDENT OF WEITZMAN'S WHO'S NOW
AT THE ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE
FUND.
>> LAST TIME CONCENTRATIONS OF
C02 WERE AS HIGH AS THEY ARE
TODAY, WE DID IN FACT HAVE SEA
LEVELS UP TO 66 FEET HIGHER THAN
TODAY.
WELL, 66 FEET AND THIS HOUSE IS
GONE.
>> Reporter: NOW, WEITZMAN AND
WAGNER CAN'T KNOW FOR SURE THAT
HIGHER TEMPERATURES ARE RISING
THE TIDES HERE--OR ANYWHERE
ELSE-- BUT THE PROBABILITY OF
TRUE CATASTROPHE WAS ENOUGH TO
PROMPT "CLIMATE SHOCK," ABOUT
THE DANGERS THAT LURK, DANGERS
WEITZMAN WASN'T WORRIED ABOUT
WHEN HE FIRST WENT INTO
ENVIRONMENTAL ECONOMICS YEARS
AGO.
>> I WAS WONDERING HOW COULD IT
BE POSSIBLE THAT MERE HUMAN
BEINGS COULD CHANGE THE CLIMATE
IN A SERIOUS WAY.
>> Reporter: BUT GEOLOGIC
SAMPLES OF CARBON DIOXIDE, GOING
BACK MILLENNIA, CHANGED HIS
MIND.
>> WE WERE WAY OUTSIDE THE
HISTORICAL RANGE FOR AT LEAST
800,000 YEARS AND WE'RE CLIMBING
VERY STRONGLY.
>> Reporter: TODAY'S HIGHER
CONCENTRATIONS OF ATMOSPHERIC
CARBON DIOXIDE ARE SHOWN HERE IN
RED.
AND THE HISTORIC CORRELATION
WITH HIGH TEMPERATURE IMPLIES,
SAYS WEITZMAN.
>> THERE'S ABOUT ALMOST A 10%
CHANCE OF AN INCREASE OF 4 AND A
HALF DEGREES CENTIGRADE.
>> Reporter: NINE DEGREES
FAHRENHEIT ROUGHLY SPEAKING?
>> YES, SOMETHING LIKE THAT, AND
THAT WOULD MAKE OUTDOOR LIVING
IN MANY PARTS OF THE WORLD
IMPOSSIBLE.
>> IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE A LOT,
BUT THINK OF THE HUMAN BODY,
RIGHT?
IF YOU HAVE A FEVER OF 4 AND A
HALF DEGREES CENTIGRADE, NINE
DEGREES FAHRENHEIT YOU ARE DEAD.
>> Reporter: BUT 10% I MEAN THAT
IS JUST ONE CHANCE IN 10.
I HAVE BEEN AT THE RACETRACK
LONG ENOUGH TO KNOW HOW RARELY A
10 TO 1 SHOT COMES IN.
>> YEAH, BUT WE-- IT'S NOT THAT
RARE.
YOU BUY FIRE INSURANCE FOR
PROBABILITIES THAT ARE MUCH
LOWER THAN 10%.
YOU BUY CAR INSURANCE FOR
PROBABILITIES THAT ARE MUCH
LOWER THAN 1 IN 10 OVER A
LIFETIME.
SO THIS IS WELL WITHIN THE RANGE
OF THINGS THAT WE LIKE TO INSURE
AGAINST.
>> Reporter: OKAY, BUY INSURANCE
AGAINST CATASTROPHE.
BUT HOW?
>> YOU PRICE CO2, YOU PRICE
CARBON DIOXIDE.
>> Reporter: YOU PUT A PRICE ON
IT.
>> THAT'S THE INSURANCE PREMIUM,
FOR EVERY TON OF CO2 WE ARE
EMITTING TODAY WE CAUSE AT LEAST
ABOUT $40 WORTH, OF DAMAGES.
WHEN I BOARD A CROSS COUNTRY
FLIGHT TO SAN FRANCISCO AND BACK
I EMIT ABOUT ONE TON OF CO2, I
PERSONALLY NOT THE PLANE, JUST
ME PERSONALLY.
MEANWHILE, I DON'T PAY FOR THAT.
>> Reporter: SO YOU WANT THE
AIRLINE TO CHARGE AN EXTRA $40
ON YOUR TICKET.
>> I WANT THE GOVERNMENT, TO PUT
A PRICE ON CO2 THAT EVERYBODY
PAYS IN ORDER TO SET THE RIGHT
INCENTIVES.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE ISN'T
BROAD PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR TAXING
EMISSIONS.
MEANWHILE, A CHEAP BUT
CONTROVERSIAL SOLUTION OF LAST
RESORT HAS EMERGED:
A SO-CALLED "GEOENGINEERING"
TECHNIQUE CALLED: "SOLAR
RADIATION MANAGEMENT"-- SHOOTING
PARTICLES INTO THE SKY TO
REFLECT SUNLIGHT BACK INTO
SPACE.
HARVARD ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENTIST
DAVID KEITH.
>> THE CENTRAL IDEA IS TO MAKE
THE PLANET A LITTLE BIT MORE
REFLECTIVE, WHICH TENDS TO COOL
IT DOWN BECAUSE IT WILL ABSORB
LESS SUNLIGHT.
AND THAT WILL PARTIALLY AND
IMPERFECTLY COMPENSATE FOR THE
BUILDUP OF GREENHOUSE GASES LIKE
CARBON DIOXIDE, WHICH ARE
TENDING TO TRAP HEAT AND MAKE
THE EARTH WARMER.
>> Reporter: NATURE RAN THE
EXPERIMENT IN 1991, WHEN THE
ERUPTION OF MOUNT PINATUBO IN
THE PHILIPPINES LOFTED A 20-
MILLION-TON SULFUR DIOXIDE CLOUD
INTO THE STRATOSPHERE, LOWERING
GLOBAL TEMPERATURES BY A FULL
DEGREE FAHRENHEIT FOR TWO YEARS.
AND MIMICKING THE VOLCANO'S
EFFECT BY SPRAYING SULFATES IS
RELATIVELY CHEAP, SAYS WAGNER.
>> IT'S SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 1 AND
10 BILLION DOLLARS TO LITERALLY
FLY LIKE LEARJETS 24/7, ENOUGH
OF THEM, TO DECREASE GLOBAL
AVERAGE TEMPERATURES BACK TO
WHERE THEY WERE PRE-INDUSTRIAL
TIMES.
>> Reporter: BUT IF THE CLEAR
AND FUTURE DANGER OF CLIMATE
CHANGE IS SOME CHANCE OF
CALAMITY, WHAT COULD SULFUR
PARTICLES IN THE STRATOSPHERE
DO?
THE PREMISE OF THE SCI-FI FILM
"SNOWPIERCER," STARRING A TRAIN
THAT CIRCLES THE EARTH WITH THE
LAST LIVING HUMANS, IS A
DRAMATIZATION OF SKEPTICS' WORST
FEARS, A COOLANT SHOT INTO THE
UPPER ATMOSPHERE THAT FREEZES
EARTH.
>> DEAD, ALL DEAD.
>> Reporter: WEITZMAN AND WAGNER
HAVE THEIR OWN SCARE SCENARIO: A
RICH ROGUE GEOENGINEER.
>> MAN HAS CLIMBED MT. EVEREST,
GONE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE OCEAN,
ACHIEVED MIRACLES IN EVERY FIELD
OF HUMAN ENDEAVOR-- EXCEPT
CRIME!
>> Reporter: AS JAMES BOND'S
ARCH NEMESIS, GOLDFINGER, EASILY
DISPERSED GAS OVER FORT KNOX,
WEITZMAN AND WAGNER IMAGINE A
GREENFINGER, SENDING 100 PLANES
AROUND THE EARTH, ROUND THE
CLOCK.
>> I THINK IT'S VERY IMPLAUSIBLE
THAT IT WOULD BE DONE IT LARGE
SCALE BY A SINGLE PERSON, A
GOLDFINGER.
>> Reporter: BUT, SAYS KEITH,
COUNTRIES COULD CERTAINLY DO IT.
AND IF TEMPERATURES KEEP RISING,
SOME MIGHT ASK, WHY NOT, RISKS
BE DAMNED.
>> THE BIG RISKS OF THIS
TECHNOLOGY FUNDAMENTALLY AREN'T
TECHNICAL.
THEY'RE POLITICAL.
THEY'RE THE RISK OF HOW IT GETS
USED IN A DIVIDED WORLD.
THE BASIC QUESTION OF HOW WE SET
THE THERMOSTAT IN A WORLD WHERE
WE HAVE MANY DIFFERENT COUNTRIES
AND MANY DIFFERENT INTERESTS AND
IT'S REALLY CHEAP TO ADJUST THE
THERMOSTAT.
>> Reporter: WITH EMISSIONS
RISING, KEITH AND HIS COLLEAGUES
ARE RESEARCHING TECHNICAL
DANGERS, DEPLETING THE OZONE
LAYER, CHANGES IN WEATHER
PATTERNS AMONG THEM.
THEY THINK GEOENGINEERING MAY
BECOME A DESPERATION FALLBACK.
CONSIDER THE LATEST CALL FOR
ACTION FROM POPE FRANCIS.
ACTION FROM POPE FRANCIS. >> (
translated): THIS HOME
OF
>> (translated): THIS
HOME OF OURS IS BEING RUINED AND
THAT
OURS IS BEING RUINED AND THAT
DAMAGES EVERYONE, ESPECIALLY THE
POOR.
>> Reporter: IN HIS RECENT
ENCYCLICAL, THE POPE MADE THE
MORAL CASE FOR REDUCING THE USE
OF FOSSIL FUELS AND FOR
RETHINKING CRENTUR DEFINITIONS
OF ECONOMIC GROWTH.
SCIENTIST KEITH AGREES.
>> EVEN IF I KNEW THAT STOPPING
CLIMATE CHANGE WOULD MAKE THE
WORLD ON AVERAGE A FEW PERCENT
POORER IN 2100, I'D STILL BE IN
FAVOR OF STOPPING CLIMATE
CHANGE.
AND THAT'S BECAUSE I WANT TO
LEAVE FUTURE GENERATIONS WITH A
CHANCE TO ENJOY THE NATURAL
WORLD MORE AS I DO.
AND THAT IS FUNDAMENTALLY AN
ETHICAL OR MORAL OR NATURALISTIC
VIEW ABOUT THE WORLD THAT ISN'T
EASILY CAPTURED IN THE EQUATIONS
OF ECONOMISTS.
>> THIS WAS ONCE A RED CEDAR.
>> Reporter: BUT WEITZMAN THINKS
THERE'S AN ECONOMIC CASE FOR
CLIMATE ACTION, TOO, SINCE IN
THE LONG-RUN, THE BENEFITS TO
SOCIETY OF CUTTING EMISSIONS FAR
OUTWEIGH THE SHORT-TERM COSTS.
MEANWHILE THE COSTS OF IN-ACTION
SEEM TO BE INCHING EVER CLOSER
TO HOME.
>> SO HERE IS A WOODEN WALKWAY
THAT HAS BEEN LIFTED UP BY HIGH
TIDES THAT WILL COME OVER IT.
THAT TOOK A WHILE TO DEVELOP
THIS CURVE DUE TO THE PUSHING UP
OF THE WATER AND THE HIGHER
LEVEL OF THIS WATER.
>> Reporter: SO YOU MEAN THIS
WAS FLAT BEFORE?
>> YES, YES.
WHEN IT WAS CONSTRUCTED IT WAS
FLAT.
CAREFUL.
>> Reporter: IT ISN'T ANYMORE.
THIS IS ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN REPORTING FROM
FROM PBS NEWSHOUR IN
GLOUCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.
>> Woodruff: NOW THE LATEST
ADDITION TO THE NEWSHOUR
BOOKSHELF.
DRUG KINGPIN JOAQUIN "EL CHAPO"
GUZMAN'S ESCAPE THIS WEEK FROM
ONE OF MEXICO'S MAXIMUM SECURITY
PRISONS MADE HEADLINES AROUND
THE WORLD.
GUZMAN WAS THE LONG TIME HEAD OF
ONE OF THE MOST VIOLENT CRIMINAL
SYNDICATES IN MEXICO AND THE
UNITED STATES.
NOW, A NEW NOVEL, "THE CARTEL"
BY DON WINSLOW OFFERS SOME
INSIGHT INTO BOTH SIDES OF THE
WAR ON DRUGS-- THE NARCO-
TRAFFICKERS AS WELL AS LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
JEFFREY BROWN TALKED WITH
WINSLOW RECENTLY.
>> Brown: DON WINSLOW, WELCOME
TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: YOU HAVE BEEN
WRITING ABOUT THE VIOLENCE IN
MEXICO AND ALONG THE BORDER FOR
A LONG TIME, NOW.
WHY?
WHY COMPELLED TO SORT OF BE IN
THE NEWS THIS WAY?
>> YOU KNOW, I LIVE ALONG THE
BORDER, ABOUT 40 MILES.
SO WE LIVE IN A BORDER CULTURE.
MEXICO IS VERY REAL TO US.
WE HAVE PEOPLE GOING BACK AND
FORTH ALL THE TIME.
I ALSO THINK IT'S ONE OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT CRIME STORIES IN
THE WORLD TODAY.
I'M A CRIME WRITER, SO I WANT TO
BE WRITING ABOUT THE MOST
IMPORTANT THINGS.
>> Brown: AND A CONTINUING
STORY.
EVEN THIS WEEK, WE GET NEWS OF
THE ESCAPE OF EL CHAPO.
>> EL CHAPO GUZMAN, EXACTLY.
YEAH, YOU KNOW, I HAVE BEEN
WRITING THIS BOOK.
"THE CARTEL" IS A CONTINUATION
OF A BOOK I DID ABOUT TEN YEARS
AGO AND FOLLOWS THE WAR ON DRUGS
FOR ABOUT 45 YEARS.
SO I HAVE BEEN FOLLOWING
EL CHAPO FOR 15 YEARS, AND THIS
PAST WEEKEND'S NEWS FELT LIKE IT
CAME RIGHT OUT OF THE PAGES OF
MY BOOK.
>> Brown: I WONDER AFTER
HAVING TAKEN A CRACK LIKE THIS
IN SEVERAL DIFFERENT WAYS, DOES
THE NOVEL CAPTURE SOMETHING THE
DAY-TO-DAY JOURNALISM CAN'T?
>> I THINK SO.
I THINK YOU CAN USE FICTION TO
GET INSIDE PEOPLE'S MINDS.
>> Brown: INSIDE THEIR MINDS?
SIDE THEIR MINDS AND LET THE
READER LOOK AT THE WORLD THROUGH
THEIR POINT OF VIEW AS
JOURNALISTS AREN'T ALLOWED TO
DO.
SO I THINK NOVELISTS CAN
APPROACH A SUBJECT LIKE THIS
FROM A DIFFERENT ANGLE AND CAN
BE ENLIGHTENING.
>> Brown: THIS IS ANOTHER
DISCUSSION WE HAVE HERE, WHEN
YOU'RE DEALING WITH SOMETHING SO
HORRIFIC, RIGHT, YOU'RE TRYING
TO TRANSLATE IT.
THERE IS THIS TERM, PORNOGRAPHY
IN VIOLENCE.
>> I USED IT.
>> Brown: HOW MUCH DO YOU SHOW
WHERE TO USE RESTRAINT?
WHAT'S YOUR SUBSTANCE VIS-A-VIS
THE READER?
>> I THINK YOU HAVE TO MAKE A
VERY CLEAN DECISION ABOUT THIS.
I NEVER WANTED TO SANITIZE THE
VIOLENCE FOR THE READER BECAUSE
I WANT THE READER TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT HAS HAPPENED DOWN IN MEXICO
OVER THE PAST TEN YEARS.
AT THE SAME TIME, IT CAN HAVE A
NUMBING EFFECT, JUST AS
REAL-LIFE VIOLENCE HAS A NUMBING
EFFECT ON THE PEOPLE WHO
EXPERIENCE IT.
SO I HAD TO FIND DIFFERENT
AVENUES OF APPROACHING IT.
SO SOMETIMES I WROTE THE ACTUAL
EVENT OF VIOLENCE.
>> Brown: THE ACTUAL EVENT,
YOU MEAN BASED ON -- YOU MEAN
SOMETIMES BASED ON THE ACTUAL
EVENT.
>> ALMOST ALL THE TIME BASED ON
THE ACTUAL EVENT.
OTHER TIMES, I WOULD WRITE
PEOPLE'S REACTION TO IT, THE
JOURNALIST COMIC ACROSS IT --
THE JOURNALIST COMING ACROSS IT
AND LATER SOMEONE COMING ACROSS
IT AND REACTING ON AN EMOTIONAL
LEVEL.
>> Brown: WOULD YOU SOMETIMES
STOP AT CERTAIN POINT?
>> YES, SOMETIMES THE VIOLENCE
WAS SO HORRIFIC I DIDN'T THINK A
READER COULD ABSORB IT.
EVEN WHEN I BELIEVED THAT'S WHAT
HAPPENED, THERE WERE TIMES I
BACKED OFF IT.
>> Brown: I DIDN'T REALIZE YOU
HAD BEEN A PRIVACY INVESTIGATOR
ONCE IN YOUR LIFE.
YOU'VE DONE VARIOUS THINGS IN
YOUR LIFE.
HOW MUCH RESEARCH GOES IN YOURxD
BOOK LIKE THIS?
>> WELL, A LOT.
I MEAN, THIS WAS ABOUT FIVE
YEARS OF MY LIFE IN TERMS OF
RESEARCH AND WRITING AND, SO,
YOU TALKED TO D.A. AGENTS, YOU
TALKED TO DRUG TRAFFICKERS AND
ADDICTS AND A LOT OF PEOPLE.
YOU READ A LOT OF JOURNALISM,
READ A LOT OF BOOKS, COURT
TRANSCRIPTS, TRIALS, THAT KIND
OF THING.
>> Brown: WHEN THE BOOK WAS
COMING OUT, YOU TOOK OUT A
FULL-PAGE AD IN NEWSPAPERS
CALLING FOR AN END TO THE WAR Oi
DRUGS.
IT OBVIOUSLY COST YOU A FAIR
AMOUNT OF MONEY, I SUPPOSE, TO
DO SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
WHY DO THAT?
>> WELL, AS I SAID, I HAVE BEEN
WRITING ABOUT THIS WAR FOR 15
YEARS, AND I HAVE BEEN TO THE
FUNERALS.
I HAVE SAT WITH THE MOTHERS WHO
HAVE LOST ADDICTED SONS.
I'VE SAT WITH FAMILIES OF KIDS
WHO HAVE BEEN KILLED IN
DRUG-RELATED GANG VIOLENCE, I
HAVE BEEN TO THE PRISONS, I'VE
SEEN THE EFFECTS.
AT SOME POINT IN TIME, I FELT I
HAD TO DO SOMETHING OTHER THAN
WRITE A NOVEL ABOUT IT, THAT I
NEED TO TRY TO MAKE SOME SORT OF
CONTRIBUTION, AT LEAST TRY TO
MAKE SOME SORT OF DIFFERENCE IN
THE REAL WORLD.
>> Brown: THERE'S A LINE
THERE.
A DIRECT LINE, YOU SAY, BETWEENi
THE WAR ON DRUGS AND RECENT
EVENTS IN FERGUSON, CLEVELAND,
BALTIMORE AND ELSEWHERE.
WHAT'S THE LINE?
>> WELL, YOU CAN DRAW A DIRECT
LINE BETWEEN THE MILITARIZATION
OF OUR POLICE FORCES, AND COPS
HAVE TOLD ME THIS, AND THE
EVENTS IN FERGUSON AND CLEVELAND
AND NEW YORK BECAUSE IT WAS THE
WAR ON DRUGS THAT LIKELY
MILITARIZED OUR POLICE FIRST,
WHERE POLICE ARE GOING INTO
THESE NEIGHBORHOODS, SMASHING
DOWN DOORS, r ARRESTING YOUNG M,
AND THAT STARTS A HOSTILITY THAT
CONTINUES TO THIS DAY.
ONE POLICE OFFICER, HIGH-RANKING
POLICE OFFICER, TOLD ME, YOU
KNOW, THEY CUT IN HALF MY
COMMUNITY POLICING FUNDS AND,
INSTEAD, GAVE ME TANKS.
>> Brown: AND HOW FAR DO YOU
PUSH THIS?
YOU TALK ABOUT LEGALIZATION.
>> YES, I WOULD PUSH IT ALL THE
WAY TO LEGALIZATION.
LOOK, WE HAVE BEEN DOING THE
SAME THING FOR COMING ON 45
YEARS, JEFF, AND WHAT'S THE
RESULT?
DRUGS ARE MORE PLENTIFUL, MORE
POTENT AND CHEAPER THAN EVER.
IT'S NOT WORKING.
IN NO WAY DO I MEAN TO DISPARAGE
THE VERY BRAVE AND INTELLIGENT
PEOPLE, POLICE OFFICERS, D.E.A.
PERSONNEL WHO FIGHT THIS WAR,
BUT WE NEED TO START LOOKING AT
THIS AS THE SOCIAL HEALTH
PROBLEM IT IS AND NOT A LAW
ENFORCEMENT OR MILITARY PROBLEM.
>> Brown: THE NOVEL IS "THE
CARTEL," DON WINSLOW, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> Ifill: WE CLOSE WITH ANOTHER
OF THE SERIES OF INTERVIEWS WITH
ARTISTS, AUTHORS, LEADERS AND
THINKERS THAT WE'RE CALLING
"BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR."
TONIGHT WE HEAR FROM JILL
SOLOWAY, CREATOR AND EXECUTIVE
PRODUCER OF AMAZON'S
"TRANSPARENT."
JUST TODAY, THE SHOW WAS
NOMINAT FORED ITS SECOND EMMY
FOR BEST COMEDY SERIES.
SHE TALKS ABOUT THE TRANSITIONS
THAT HAVE SHAPED HER LIFE,
SHIFTED HOLLYWOOD.
>> WHEN I WAS A LITTLE KID,
WATCHING TELEVISION, I WAS
PROBABLY WRITING IT IN MY HEAD.
I WAS INSIDE THE TV INSTEAD OF
OUTSIDE THE TV, BECAUSE THAT'S
WHERE I WANTED TO BE, ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE GLASS.
HI, FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
GLASS!
I WAS OBSESSED, WHAT DOES IT
MEAN TO BE A FEMALE SUBJECT?
FOR ME TO GET THAT WAY HOLDING
THE CAMERA WAS TO DIRECT.
NO ONE ON TV WOULD LET ME
DIRECT.
I STARTED TO IMAGINE WHAT MY
DIRECTOR'S VOICE COULD LOOK LIKE
AND STARTED TO IMAGINE THIS
RECLAIMING OF THE MALE GAZE -- I
LIKE TO CALL IT THE FEMALE GAZE,
ABOUT HOW IT FEELS TO BE INSIDE
A WOMAN'S BODY AND MIND THAN
LOOKING AT HER, LIKE MOST
TELEVISION OR FILM DOES, CREATES
THEM AS OBJECTS INSTEAD OF
SUBJECTS.
SO I MADE A SHORT FILM, ENTERED
IT INTO SUNDANCE, GOT IN, WAS
BACK THE FOLLOWING YEAR AT
SUNDANCE WITH THE FEATURE AND I
WON THE DIRECTING AWARD WHICH IS
CRAZY.
SOMEWHERE ALONG THAT TIME MY
PARENTS CALLED ME A SOMEWHAT
IMPORTANT PIECE OF NEWS, THIS
WAS GOING TO BE YOUR SHOW.
ALMOST LIKE A FREIGHT TRAIN.
THE TRUTH OF MY PERSONAL STORY,
MY PARENTS STORY, THE FAMILY'S
JOWRNY, IT WAS ALL JUST
HAPPENING.
WHATEVER SMALL PIECES OF PRIVACY
WE GIVE UP BY PEOPLE KNOWING
THAT PARTS OF US ARE INSPIRED BY
REAL LIFE IS ALL WORTH IT
BECAUSE WE ALL GET SO MANY
PEOPLE COMING TO US AND SAYING
THAT THE SHOW CHANGED THEIR
LIVES.
THERE IS THIS ADD DAMAGE WE USED
TO HEAR IN THE WRITERS ROOM,
YIDDISH AND CASH YIDDISH ON THIS
SHOW.
IN NETWORK TELEVISION, YOU WOULD
WORK ON A SHOW AND THEY WOULD
BE, LIKE, I KNOW YOU LOVE THE
SHOW BECAUSE YOU WROTE IT AND WE
LOVE THE SHOW AT THE NETWORK
BECAUSE WE'RE COOL BUT WE'RE
GOING TO NEED TO SHOW IT TO THE
KIND OF PEOPLE WHO HATE YOU JUST
TO MAKE SURE AMERICA WOULDN'T
HATE YOU BECAUSE WE HAVE A
FEELING PEOPLE WOULD HATE YOU.
I USED TO WRITE SHOWS ABOUT
UNLIKABLE JEWISH FEMALE
ANTAGONISTS, AND YOU HAVE A
NIGHTMARE ABOUT TWO WHITE HAIRED
ON THE GOLF COURSE, GOING, NO,
WE DON'T LIKE HER, LET'S DON'T
DO A SHOW WITH HER.
IT'S GETTING PAST THE
GATEKEEPERS.
THE INTERNET IS ABOUT
UNDERSTANDING WE COULD ALL REACH
EACH OTHER THE SAME TIME INSTEAD
OF CRAWLING UP TO THE TOP TO
HAVE THE MOUNTAIN WHERE THE
GATEKEEPERS ARE AND THE GOLF
COURSE IS.
THERE IS SOMETHING ABOUT THE WAY
EVERYBODY CAN TALK TO EVERYBODY
THE SAME WAY ALL THE TIME AROUND
THE WORLD.
IT'S A DISRUPTION OF EVERYTHING
THAT ALLOWS THERE TO BE A NEW
PLATFORM WHERE THIS KIND OF
MATERIAL CAN BE DISTRIBUTED AND
THE KIND OF SOCIAL MEDIA THAT
CAN ALLOW PEOPLE TO SHARE THEIR
FEELINGS ABOUT IT.
I'M JILL SOLOWAY.
THIS IS MY SPECTACULAR TAKE ON
TRANSITIONS IN HOLLYWOOD.
>> Ifill: NOW UPDATING TWO OF
THE DAY'S MAJOR STORIES: A
COLORADO JURY CONVICTED JAMES
HOLMES OF KILLING 12 PEOPLE AND
INJURING 70 IN A MASS SHOOTING
AT A MOVIE THEATER IN 2012.
WE GOT THOSE NUMBERS WRONG
EARLIER IN THE PROGRAM, WE
APOLOGIZE FOR THAT.
THE JURY RULED HIM ELIGIBLE FOR
THE DEATH PENALTY.
AND A GUNMAN ATTACKED TWO
MILITARY FACILITIES IN
CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE, KILLING
FOUR U.S. MARINES BEFORE BEING
KILLED HIMSELF.
IN RESPONSE, U.S. ATTORNEY
GENERAL LORETTA LYNCH HAS
ORDERED A NATIONAL SECURITY
INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE TALK WITH
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
ABOUT THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
JOIN US ONLINE AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.